HCP Terraform Docs: API reference stacks in the registry (#1440)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/terraform-docs-common/docs/cloud-docs/api-docs/private-registry/stack-component-configurations.mdx

---

> page_title: Stack Component Configurations API reference for HCP Terraform

Reviewer: (directly in file)

---

[200]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/200

[201]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/201

[202]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/202

[204]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/204

[400]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/400

[401]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/401

[403]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/403

[404]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/404

[409]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/409

[412]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/412

[422]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/422

[429]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/429

[500]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/500

[504]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/504

[JSON API document]: /terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs#json-api-documents

[JSON API error object]: https://jsonapi.org/format/#error-objects

# Stack Component Configurations API reference

> Publish a Stack component configuration to the HCP Terraform private registry to share Stacks across your organization. When you publish a component configuration, other teams can use it to create a Stack by referencing it in a `stack` block in their own `<NAME>.tfcomponent.hcl` file. Refer to [Use artifacts from the HCP Terraform private registry](/terraform/cloud-docs/registry/using#use-a-stack-component-configuration) to learn more about using the `stack` block. To learn more about Stacks, refer to the [Stacks overview](/terraform/cloud-docs/stacks).

Reviewer: Suggest splitting this out into two paragraphs for scanning:
```suggestion
Publish a Stack component configuration to the HCP Terraform private registry to share Stacks across your organization. When you publish a component configuration, other teams can use it to create a Stack by defining a `stack` block in their own `<NAME>.tfcomponent.hcl` file. 

Refer to [Use artifacts from the HCP Terraform private registry](/terraform/cloud-docs/registry/using#use-a-stack-component-configuration) to learn more about using the `stack` block. To learn more about Stacks, refer to the [Stacks overview](/terraform/cloud-docs/stacks).
```

This page documents the API endpoints for managing Stack component configurations in your organization's private registry.

## Overview

The scope of the API includes the following endpoints:

| Method | Path | Action |
|--------|------|--------|
| GET | `/organizations/:organization_name/registry-components` | [List Stack component configurations](#list-stack-component-configurations-for-an-organization) for an organization. |
| POST | `/organizations/:organization_name/registry-components` | [Create a Stack component configuration](#create-a-stack-component-configuration) (with or without VCS). |
| POST | `/api/v2/registry-components/:component_id/versions` | [Create a new version](#create-a-stack-component-configuration-version) of a Stack component configuration. |

> | PUT | `https://archivist.terraform.io/v1/object/<UNIQUE OBJECT ID>` | [Upload a Stack component configuration version archive](#add-a-stack-component-configuration-version). |

Reviewer: I'd suggest having this match the title below
```suggestion
| PUT | `https://archivist.terraform.io/v1/object/<UNIQUE_OBJECT_ID>` | [Add a Stack component configuration version](#add-a-stack-component-configuration-version). |
```

| Parameter            | Description                                                                                                                                |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `q`                  | **Optional.** A search query string. Component configurations are searchable by name and namespace fields.                                 |
| `page[number]`       | **Optional.** If omitted, the endpoint will return the first page.                                                                         |
| `page[size]`         | **Optional.** If omitted, the endpoint will return 20 component configurations per page.                                          |

### Sample Request

```shell
curl \
  --request GET \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/my-organization/registry-components
```

> ### Sample Response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sample response
```

            "namespace": "hashicorp",
            "source": "hashicorp/aws"
          },
          {
            "name": "random",
            "namespace": "hashicorp",
            "source": "hashicorp/random"
          }
        ]
      },
      "relationships": {
        "organization": {
          "data": {
            "id": "org-rT5Smhs7tBfjGnsZ",
            "type": "organizations"
          }
        }
      },
      "links": {
        "self": "/api/v2/registry-components/comp-hGqAHmU28NE2hnjA"
      }
    }
  ],
  "links": {
    "self": "https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/my-organization/registry-components?page%5Bnumber%5D=1&page%5Bsize%5D=20",
    "first": "https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/my-organization/registry-components?page%5Bnumber%5D=1&page%5Bsize%5D=20",
    "prev": null,
    "next": null,
    "last": "https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/my-organization/registry-components?page%5Bnumber%5D=1&page%5Bsize%5D=20"
  },
  "meta": {
    "pagination": {
      "current-page": 1,
      "page-size": 20,
      "prev-page": null,
      "next-page": null,
      "total-pages": 1,
      "total-count": 2
    }
  }
}
```

> ## Create a Stack Component Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a Stack component configuration
```

`POST /organizations/:organization_name/registry-components`

| Parameter            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | `:organization_name` | The name of the organization to create a component configuration in. The organization must already exist, and the token authenticating the API request must belong to a team or team member with the **Manage Stack Component Configurations** permission enabled. |

Reviewer: Just small tweaks to make it a bit shorter:
```suggestion
| `:organization_name` | The name of the organization to create a component configuration in. The organization must already exist, and the token authenticating the API request must belong to a team member with **Manage Stack Component Configurations** permissions. |
```

> Creates a new Stack component configuration. This endpoint supports two publishing modes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates a new Stack component configuration. This endpoint supports VCS-backed publishing and API-only publishing.
```

**VCS-backed**: Publishes a component configuration from a VCS repository, with versions managed automatically by the repository's tags. The publishing process will fetch all tags in the source repository that look like SemVer versions with optional 'v' prefix. For each version, the tag is cloned and the configuration is parsed to populate component configuration details (input and output variables, readme, providers, etc.).

> **API-only**: Creates a component configuration without a backing VCS repository. After creating the component configuration, you must explicitly create and upload each version using the Create a Stack Component Configuration Version endpoint.

Reviewer: added a link to help people find that next step. 
```suggestion
API-only publishing creates a component configuration without a backing VCS repository. After creating the component configuration, you must explicitly create and upload subsequent versions using the [Create a Stack component configuration version endpoint](#create-a-stack-component-configuration-version).
```

> 

Reviewer: Below here -> what if instead of inter-mingling these and switch between the two publishing workflows, you feel have two separate sections for the two publishing workflows?

Basically the sections would be something like: 

```
## Create a Stack component configuration
(what you already have here is great - I left style comments, but they are small)

### VCS-backed workflow
etc...

#### Request body
etc...

#### Sample payload
etc...

#### Sample tesponse
etc...

### API-backed workflow
etc.

#### Request body
etc...

#### Sample payload
etc...

#### Sample response
etc...

```

Does that make sense? 

Then each section has all of the relevant information and you don't need `(API-only)` in headers which would probably be confusing to follow.

| Status  | Response                                                    | Reason                                                       |
| ------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [201][] | [JSON API document][] (`type: "registry-components"`)        | Successfully published component configuration               |
| [422][] | [JSON API error object][]                                   | Malformed request body (missing attributes, wrong types, etc.) |
| [404][] | [JSON API error object][]                                   | Not found, or the user is unauthorized to perform this action. |

> ### Request Body

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Request body
```

> This POST endpoint requires a JSON object with the following properties as a request payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `POST` endpoint requires a `JSON` object with the following properties as a request payload.
```

Properties without a default value are required.

> **For VCS-backed component configurations:**

Reviewer: Let's make this a header because I didn't notice it 
```suggestion
#### VCS-backed publishing
```

| Key path                                          | Type    | Default | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ------------------------------------------------- | ------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `data.type`                                       | string  |         | Must be `"registry-components"`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |

> | `data.attributes.name`                            | string  | (optional) | The name of this component configuration. If not specified, the name will be derived from the repository name. May contain alphanumeric characters, with dashes and underscores allowed in non-leading or trailing positions. Maximum length is 64 characters. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `data.attributes.name`                            | string  | (optional) | The name of this component configuration. If not specified, HCP Terraform uses the repository name. May contain alphanumeric characters, with dashes and underscores allowed in non-leading or trailing positions. Maximum length is 64 characters. |
```

| `data.attributes.vcs-repo.source-directory`       | string  | (optional) | The directory in the repository where the component configuration is located. Useful for monorepo setups where multiple component configurations exist in different directories.                                                                            |
| `data.attributes.vcs-repo.tag-prefix`             | string  | (optional) | A prefix to filter tags for versioning. Only tags matching this prefix will be considered as versions. Useful for monorepo setups where multiple component configurations share the same repository but use different tag prefixes.                          |

A VCS repository identifier is a reference to a VCS repository in the format `:org/:repo`, where `:org` and `:repo` refer to the organization, or project key for Bitbucket Data Center, and repository in your VCS provider. The format for Azure DevOps is `:org/:project/_git/:repo`.

> The OAuth Token ID identifies the VCS connection, and therefore the organization, that the component configuration will be created in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OAuth token ID identifies the VCS connection, and therefore the organization, that HCP Terraform creates the component configuration in.
```

> **For API-only component configurations:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### API-only publishing
```

| Key path              | Type   | Default | Description                                                                                                                        |
| --------------------- | ------ | ------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `data.type`           | string |         | Must be `"registry-components"`.                                                                                                    |
| `data.attributes.name`| string |         | The name of this component configuration. May contain alphanumeric characters, with dashes and underscores allowed in non-leading or trailing positions. Maximum length is 64 characters. |

### Sample Payload (VCS-backed)

> **Basic VCS configuration:**

Reviewer: Can you make these full sentences and remove the bold please? For this and all the other instances?

```json
{
  "data": {
    "type": "registry-components",
    "attributes": {
      "vcs-repo": {
        "identifier": "my-org/terraform-component-eks-cluster",
        "oauth-token-id": "ot-hmAyP66qk2AMVdbJ",
        "display_identifier": "my-org/terraform-component-eks-cluster",
      }
    }
  }
}
```

**Monorepo configuration with source directory and tag prefix:**

```json
{
  "data": {
    "type": "registry-components",
    "attributes": {
      "name": "hashibank-app-security",
      "vcs-repo": {
        "identifier": "my-org/hashibank-monorepo",
        "github-app-installation-id": "ghain-abc123xyz456",
        "source-directory": "components/security",
        "tag-prefix": "security/"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Sample Payload (API-only)

```json
{
  "data": {
    "type": "registry-components",
    "attributes": {
      "name": "eks-cluster"
    }
  }
}
```

### Sample Request

> 

Reviewer: Can you add a sentence to introduce the request please?

Creates a new registry component configuration version. This endpoint only applies to private component configurations without a VCS repository. VCS-backed Stack component configurations automatically create new versions for new tags. After creating the version for an API-only component configuration, you should upload the component configuration to the link that HCP Terraform returns.

| Status  | Response                                                              | Reason                                                         |
| ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [201][] | [JSON API document][] (`type: "registry-component-versions"`)         | Successfully published component configuration version         |
| [422][] | [JSON API error object][]                                             | Malformed request body (missing attributes, wrong types, etc.) |
| [404][] | [JSON API error object][]                                             | Not found, or the user is unauthorized to perform this action. |

### Request Body

> This POST endpoint requires a JSON object with the following properties as a request payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `POST` endpoint requires a `JSON` object with the following properties as a request payload.
```

Properties without a default value are required.

| Key path                       | Type   | Default | Description                                                                                  |
| ------------------------------ | ------ | ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `data.type`                    | string |         | Must be `"registry-component-versions"`.                                                     |
| `data.attributes.version`      | string |         | A valid semver version string.                                                               |

### Sample Payload

> 

Reviewer: Can you add a sentence to introduce the payload please?

        }
      },
      "subcomponents": {
        "links": {
          "related": "/api/v2/registry-components/comp-FRxdjivJqVVfi2SY/versions/1.0.0/subcomponents"
        }
      }
    },
    "links": {
      "self": "/api/v2/registry-components/compver-Ecdq2uaNUXNHNHcA/versions/1.0.0",
      "upload": "https://archivist.terraform.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"
    }
  }
}
```

## Add a Stack Component Configuration Version

`PUT https://archivist.terraform.io/v1/object/<UNIQUE OBJECT ID>`

**The URL is provided in the `upload` links attribute in the `registry-component-versions` resource.**

### Expected Archive Format

> HCP Terraform expects the component configuration version uploaded to be a gzip tarball with the component configuration in the root (not in a subdirectory).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HCP Terraform expects the component configuration version uploaded to be a gzip tarball with the component configuration in the root directory.
```

> Given the following folder structure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given the following example folder structure:
```

```
terraform-component-eks-cluster
├── README.md
├── examples
│   └── default
│       ├── README.md
│       └── main.tf
└── components.tfcomponent.hcl
```

Package the files in an archive format by running `tar zcvf component.tar.gz *` in the component configuration's directory.

```
~$ cd terraform-component-eks-cluster
terraform-component-eks-cluster$ tar zcvf component.tar.gz *
a README.md
a examples
a examples/default
a examples/default/main.tf
a examples/default/README.md
a components.tfcomponent.hcl
```

### Sample Request

```shell
curl \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/octet-stream" \
  --request PUT \
  --data-binary @component.tar.gz \
  https://archivist.terraform.io/v1/object/dmF1bHQ6djE6NWJPbHQ4QjV4R1ox...
```

After the Stack component configuration version is successfully parsed, its status will become `"completed"`.

> ## Get a Stack Component Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Get a Stack component configuration
```

> ## Get a Stack Component Configuration

Reviewer: Does this return multiple versions? It might be helpful to add a sentence to specify
